Hello, and
welcome back to course seven module
three of the computer forensics path.
In this module, we're going to discuss
live imaging and forensic boot media.
Live imaging,
why would we need to live image?
Well, we could be dealing
with an encrypted drive, or
an encrypted volume or
just some encrypted files may be open
in RAM currently that we want to
create a logical image of.
We would also want to collect RAM,
but collecting RAM and
live imaging are not the same thing.
Another reason why we may need to live
image is that the system can't be
shut down.
When we are doing live imaging,
we are getting a logical image of
a logical volume or a logical drive.
You're not getting that full disk image
from sector zero all the way to the end of
the disk.
We're going to use our imaging
software from an external drive.
We're not going to run our imaging
software from the suspect's computer.
You would use something like
FDK light on a thumb drive.
And there are other imaging
softwares that we can use.
We're going to send that
image that we've created to
an external sterilized target media,
which we are then going to
take with us from the scene.
We want to make sure that our target
media is large enough to contain
all the data that we want to put on it.
And again, the reasons we would do this
is if the hard drive is not removable,
we had some type of encryption.
And the Surface Pro and
MacBook would be examples of computers
where the hard drives are not removable.
The chicks decided to the board and
I think we're going to see more and
more of this.
So live imaging, I think it's going to
become something of a standard practice.
Dead box forensics,
this is if you find the computer off or
when you perform a normal shutdown
after you've collected ramp.
You would remove the hard drive, attach
the hard drive to your write blocker,
and you would have tested and
validated your write blocker prior
to going on your search warrant.
Then you're going to attach your write
blocker to your forensic computer,
and then you're going to copy your
evidence, two sterile target media.
And when I say sterile target media,
I mean media that is wiped and
confirmed to be wiped.
Not something that you ran a format on.
And just because you buy a brand-new
disk out of the box does not mean it is
completely clean.
You need to wipe the media with something
like kill disk, and then check and
verify that it is indeed completely
white with some type of algorithm
not visually looking at it
because you could miss something.
Forensic proof media, this is a little
different then dead box forensics and
a little different than the other
method of live imaging I just
described what we would use FBK
imagery from a thumb drive.
Forensic boot media is when we're
actually the computer is either off or
has gone through a normal shutdown.
We are going to reboot this computer
into a forensic environment,
and that is usually some type of
modified Lennox Operating System.
With the exception of
windows forensic environment.
Win FE is not a Lennox distribution, but
we can see the other software
is listed on the screen paladin,
cane, helix, and penguinSleuth are all
some type of modified Lennox distribution.
When you were doing booting from
forensic group media, you want to make
sure you do some research on the computer
that you're going to be booting up.
You need to find out which key
will get you into the bios, so
you can change the boot order
because if you don't do that and
you just boot up normally.
And the boot order says boot
from the hard drive first and
your external media secondary.
You're going to boot into
the operating system and
you're going to be making
changes to that evidence.
And this is what we call stepping
on the evidence, we've all done it,
but we really try not to.
Now you want to make sure
you do this correctly, so
you don't step on the evidence and
if you do, do this correctly.
This is a forensically sound
method of creating a full
disk image or
a logical image you can do either here.
Again, the computer must be shut down and
reboot it.
So this is not collecting ramp because
if you shut down and reboot it,
you've lost your ramp.
You must change the boot
order of the system.
Again, you're going to want to to find
out what he will get you into the bios,
so you can change the boot order to
boot from external media done correctly.
This makes no changes in the original
evidence, it is forensically sound, and
we'll give you the ability
to create a forensic image.
Now come up with Windows 8,
we got that far down the road,
something called UEFI come into
play along with secure boot
unified extended from where
interfaces what UEFI stands for.
But this secure boot and
UEFI prevent the operating system
from booting to external media.
Because secure boot means it can only
boot from assigned operating system.
So all the sign operating
systems can boot, so
when you try to boot from your forensic
boot media, it's going to say no.
Now there is a work around here,
you must go into the bios.
So again you have to know
where the bios key is, and
you're going to have to do some research.
You need to go in there and
change the settings to allow the computer
to boot from removable media.
So we have to disable secure boot and
enable legacy group.
To do this again, we have to get access to
the unified extended firmware interface
to change these settings, and
we would do that through the bios.
This is an example of
a screenshot of paladin.
So this is what it will look
like when we successfully
boot into that forensic
media in this case paladin.
You can see the slide
on the left-hand side,
it has imager find,
it also shows us an allocated and
disk manager will show you all
the drives attached to the computer.
So you can choose which drive you
want to image as your source,
and you can see it but
the top here it's a source, and
we can see the dead in the file path.
And that's going to tell us,
we're looking at some type of Lennox,
and then you're selecting image type.
And then you would select a destination
where is the image going to, and
then you would label
the image created name.
So we have our source,
you have to know where the sources,
you have to know where your
destination is going to be.
Now your source file should be
something on these suspects computer or
something attached to
the suspect's computer.
Your destination drive
is going to be some form
of removable media attached
to your forensic machine.
Just make sure you're aware of that and
you're not imaging your own C drive, and
you're not copying the image
to the suspect's computer.
There's also a fine
feature which we did see,
you could use the fines feature
to search for certain keywords.
If you had keywords that you know in
your case, in this case it's bad.
The key word was bad stuff, and this shows
you the device that you're searching.
You just put a little check mark in
the box, and then you select fine.
This brings us to the end of course seven.
In course eight we're going to
discuss the fat file system.